Well, hello.
Hello, everybody.
Hello and welcome to Python Bytes, where we deliver Python news and headlines directly to your earbuds.
This is Episode 217, recorded, what is it, January 19, 2021.
I'm Brian Okken.
I'm Michael Kennedy.
And I'm Ogie Moore.
- Welcome, thanks for joining us.
- Yeah, it's great to have you here.
Yeah, thanks for coming.
- Well, should we just jump in?
- Let's do it.
- Well, first off, let's see, who's first?
Michael's first.
- I'm first, you wanna talk about caching?
I got some cool stuff to talk about with caching.
So I recently got a recommendation from Ian Maurer,
who was talking about genetics and biology
over on talk Python, I think 154, so a while back,
but he pointed out this project called Python Disk Cache.
And it just seems like such a cool project to me.
So one of the big problems or not problems,
one of the trade-offs or the mix of resources
we have to work with when we're running stuff in the cloud
so often has to do with limited RAM,
limited memory in that regard, and limited CPU,
but usually have a ton of disk space.
For example, on my server, I think I've got like,
I'm using five gigs out of 25 gigs,
but I've only got, you know,
two or four gigs of RAM, right?
But one of the things you can do
to make your code incredibly fast
is to cache stuff that's expensive, right?
If you're gonna do a complicated series of database queries,
maybe just save the result and refresh it every so often
or something like that, right?
Well, this library here is kind of the simplest version
of one of these caches.
Like people often recommend memcached,
they talk about Redis,
you might even store something in your database
and then pull it back out.
And all those things are fine.
They just have extra complexity.
Now I have a separate database server to talk to
if I didn't have one before.
I've got a Redis caching server now I got to share.
What if you just use that extra hard disk space
to make your app faster?
A lot of the cloud systems like Linux, for example,
they have SSDs for the hard drive.
So if you store something and then read it back,
it's gonna be blazing fast, right?
So disk cache is all about allowing you to do,
you know, put this thing in the cache,
to get it from the cache,
but it actually stores it in the file system.
That's pretty cool, right?
- Yeah.
- Yeah, so it's super easy to use.
You can just come up here and say,
import disk cache,
and just to get an item,
I just say cache, like a dictionary basically,
and to put it back, same thing.
You give it a key and a value.
It is basically like a dictionary,
but it persists across runs,
it's multi-threaded, multi-process safe,
and all those kinds of things.
So incredibly cool, it's pure Python,
it runs in process, so there's not like a server to manage.
It has 100% test coverage, hours of stress testing,
it's focused on performance,
and it actually, Django has a built-in caching API in Django,
and you can plug this into Django.
So when people say, "Cache with my thing,"
even third-party apps and stuff,
you can automatically start using this,
which is pretty awesome.
It has support for eviction.
So last, most recently used, first and so on,
you can tag things and say these can get evicted
sooner and whatnot.
So really, really nice, incredibly easy to use.
I definitely recommend people check it out
because very nice.
It has different kinds of data structures
that you can work with like a fan out cache,
a Django cache, a regular cache and so on.
So if you wanna work with some code
and it's possibly going to run in multiple processes
or it's gonna start and then restart,
start and stop and then run again
and you wanted to not have to recompute everything,
disk cache.
I guess they--
- Evictions are evictions like on hold for 2020.
- Yeah, well, because of COVID,
you're gonna need more disk space.
No, just kidding.
(laughing)
- Oh, this looks cool.
So what's, one of the things I was confused about is
it's a key, it's called the cat disk cache,
but what's the difference between that
and just like a key value store database?
- Well, those, the key value store database in practice
would be no different.
So, but you have a separate server.
Like there is a server process that runs somewhere
that you have to have a, like a connection string
and stuff too, that you talk to it in this way.
This is like, I have a file
and I use the same API to talk to it.
So instead of having another server to manage,
another place to run it,
you just say like, let me just put it on the SSD
and that's probably quite fast.
- Cool, yeah.
- And then we got a quick question here.
Brandon asks, do they talk about any way to scale this out,
say multiple servers behind a load balancer?
I did not see anything.
I'm pretty sure as far as I can tell that it's local.
just like sort of a per machine type of thing,
not a, but it does go across processes,
but it doesn't, I haven't seen anything
talking about multi-machine.
I guess you could set up a, like a microservice,
but at that point you might as well just have Redis.
- Yeah, yeah.
Redis is kind of on my list of things
to try here pretty soon too, so.
- Absolutely.
- Another thing I wanna check out is some of the,
Well, I like tom all lately. yeah, almost great. Tom was great. I heard that it reached 1.0
Yeah, so it is it's at 1.0 now and and I think that they were kind of headed there anyway
so I was looking through the changelog
um looks like they had several, uh release candidates and
And i'm anyway, we'll talk about a little bit. So it's it's at 1.0 now
I mean, a lot of us don't really understand.
It's maybe I'm speaking for myself.
Don't really get what all the specification means.
I just use it.
It just works.
It's easy.
And one of the things I use it for is the pyproject.toml file.
It's mostly what I use it for.
But pyproject.toml is taking off, and this is at 1.0.
So what does this mean?
I'm hoping that this means that we have a Python package built
into the Python that parses TOML.
Yeah, now the language is stable, right?
Maybe it means I need to learn more about TOML.
Maybe.
But I think there's talk about it.
I'm not sure what the state of it is.
Maybe we could get Brett or somebody to talk about it.
But in the meantime, if you want to play with 1.0 with Python,
I think there might be limited choices.
So I went out and looked.
There's a page on the project page that shows--
it's down at the bottom.
It shows the different projects that implement
the various versions of TOML.
And there's one project-- so there's a C++ project that--
or a handful of C++ that support the 1.0.0,
the most recent version of TOML.
And then various support levels for different other things.
There's a 1.0.0 release candidate one
that's supported by Toml kit.
So Toml kit is a Python project that looks--
and I think that that might be sufficient to try out
most of the features, the new features.
And then what I would think of as just the Toml project
in Python, that one's only--
it supports 0.5.0.
So I'm not sure what's going on there.
It'd be great if it would support the latest.
But then I'm like, what does that mean?
What's different between 0.5.0 and 1.0?
And so I went and looked at the changelog.
There's three things that jump out
that look like they're new, really changes.
One of them is leading zeros in exponent parts
of floats are permitted.
So, okay.
Then allowing raw character tabs in basic strings
and multi-line basic strings, that seems reasonable.
And then the difficult one might be
allowing heterogeneous values in arrays,
which that's cool.
And yeah, so apparently it wasn't there before.
- Yeah, but none of those seem like super common stuff
that's gonna be a big breaking change.
Like, oh, well, of course we use heterogeneous types
Like we're just going to mix it up
and have random stuff in our array.
It seems like it's probably still the built-in--
or the pure Python one is probably decent still.
>>Right.
And I need the--
I guess there's a whole bunch of these
that are listed as clarify.
But it is a specification, so clarify might be very important.
But I'm not sure how important that is.
It probably affects the implementation.
But I'm putting this out because I'd
I'd like to hear from people that know more than I do
about this and how this affects Python
and if we should care about it.
- Yeah, yeah, for sure.
It's very cool to see it coming along
and it definitely lends some support
to the whole PyProject TOML stuff.
- Yeah.
Hey, before we move on to Augie's first topic,
Martin Boris asked,
just wondering, is this disk cache thing I mentioned,
is it a simple way to share data
between uvicorn and gunicorn workers?
Yes, exactly.
That's exactly why it matters
because it goes across the worker processes,
or across worker process in general,
across multi-processes and the consequence
of multiple worker processes.
'Cause normally you would either cache
in like process memory, so you gotta do it like 10 times,
'cause you've got it all fanned out
in a different processes running.
So this will solve that for sure.
And then one for you, Brian, for Magnus Carlsen.
- Yeah, does, what was that?
Does PEP 621--
- The Toml spec, whatever the PEP is for that.
- Specify the version of tunnel to use?
I don't know.
We'll have to ask Brett about that too.
- Yeah, I don't know either, sorry.
All right, Augie, what you got?
- Well, I'm here.
Well, thank you for inviting me again.
This is actually, you have two consecutive weeks
of hosting Mechanical Engineers as your guest
on the podcast.
So, thanks for being inclusive.
But I wanted to talk about PyKitty Graph,
which is not new, but it's--
- People maybe don't know this, so tell them about it.
- Yeah, absolutely.
So PyQt Graph is a plotting library,
but it's a little different from the likes of Matplotlib
and the variance or derivatives from that or a bouquet.
PyQt Graph uses the Qt framework
and it's meant for embedding interactive plots
within a GUI applications.
And as a consequence of using it as the Qt,
you can actually get some really high performance
out of it, which is, which Matplotlib
is absolutely phenomenal for generating plots
for publications or, you know, for static media on websites.
But the moment you try and do anything
like with mouse interactions, you might be in for a,
you know, a bit of a tough time.
Then-- - Right, but with this,
you're running on like native, with Qt,
you're running natively on the OS, right?
- Absolutely, yeah, you're running,
yeah, there's no client server relationship
like you would get with a bouquet,
which you might need in some certain situations.
But, and anyway, so part of the PyQt Graph library is,
which, you know, I guess I should identify
that I am a maintainer of,
but is that we actually bundle an example application.
So if you're ever curious about the library
and its capabilities, you know,
and don't feel like reading through dozens of pages
of documentation, you can just run this example app,
which I have on the screen share.
And it shows you the list of areas.
- This comes with PyQt Graph, right?
- Yes, yeah, it's bundled in the library.
So if you pick up PyQt Graph, you get this.
And here's some of the basic, you know, plots,
but yeah, and as you can see,
you get our mouse interactivity going
and, you know, we can do Zoom behavior.
And, but what's really cool about this library is that example here, basic plotting is generating
during with this code right here.
All those plots was in this, I can't tell how many lines, maybe 70 lines total.
Yeah.
But anyway, you can, within this editor here, you can change any of the code and experiment
with yourself.
And here on the tab, you see all these different items, you know, it does 2D, we have some
3D capability, which you need the PyOpenGL library for.
This one is just maybe a dozen lines of code,
but you have a couple of plots here,
and then just with the mouse interactivity,
we can sub-select or here you can get our crosshairs and get
information about what's the data underneath the mouse.
For an analysis tool,
it can be incredibly powerful.
If you're generating tools for
any engineering or scientific analysis where you
want the user to be able to interact with the data in some way,
you know, zoom in, zoom out, things like that,
or a Pikey graph might be a really good option for you.
- Yeah, absolutely.
Can you run the basic plotting thing one real quick?
- Oh yeah, of course.
- So when I was looking at this,
the thing that stood out to me was while it looks,
like the graphs are beautiful and they look good,
you know, the first couple of days,
I was like, I could probably do that in Bokeh
or Plot Layer, you know, Map Plot Layer,
something like that, right?
but the nice interaction between multiple graphs
as you zoom in one, the other goes in,
or that super high frequency yellow one
that's people listening, it's like refreshing,
many, many times a second, right?
Getting high frame rates out of those like Jupyter Notebooks
sounds tricky.
- Yeah, and I'm actually really glad
you brought up high frame rates.
I'm actually on the verge of merging a pull request
to integrate a Coupy support,
which is the CUDA number arrays
for some of the image data.
And on some of our benchmarks, we're
showing being able to go from maybe 20 frames per second
of images up to over 150 frames per second, which monitors
can't keep up.
But you lessen the CPU load substantially.
Yeah, that's fantastic.
We got a comment question from the Anthony Shah.
I use the built-in grapher app in macOS.
I do not know what the built-in grapher app is.
So I am afraid I don't know how to answer that.
- You don't know if it can replace it or not.
I don't know either, but yeah.
- But PyQt Graph has a couple of dependencies.
You need some Qt bindings.
And right now we support Qt 5, 5.12 and newer.
Up until very recently,
PyQt Graph supported like virtually any Qt bindings
you could install, like even going back a decade,
which eventually I had to put an ax to that,
that was just too much work.
And so we support Qt 5.12 or newer.
We don't support Qt 6 yet,
although there is a pull request in to add support
for PySide 6, which was discussed on the show
just two weeks ago.
- Yeah, it just came out, right?
- Right, it just came out,
And which I'm really thankful for contributors, you know,
that are submitting these pull requests.
I'm often feel bad.
I can't keep up with the rate that they're coming in,
but it's still appreciated.
- Are you looking for contributors to the project?
- Yeah, absolutely.
And not just contributors to the code,
but also people that can,
that are willing to look over a pull request
or willing to test out pull requests mainly
with the plotting library,
sometimes testing can be really difficult
because like visual artifacts,
like how do I test for that, right?
And so sometimes a lot of, a big chunk of our testing is,
well, does this break or does this look right?
And being able to, you know, having somebody else,
you know, verifies that kind of stuff
or is a really big help.
So yeah, if you're interested in this,
and feel free to reach out to me directly
or take a look at our issue tracker or pull request tracker.
Yeah, and oh, and I guess the last thing I should say
is it's primarily used in scientific
and engineering applications.
It's periodically I go through the Git log
and I look at like the email addresses
that people are contributing to,
and NASA Ames Research Center and places like that.
- It's awesome. - It's like that, but...
But, yeah, no, I get a kick out of that.
Yeah, that's super, super cool.
Nice. Thanks for sharing that and good work on it.
Well, another cool thing is Linode,
and they're sponsoring this episode. Thank you, Linode.
Simplify your infrastructure and cut your cloud bills in half
with Linode's Linux virtual machines.
develop, deploy and scale your modern
applications faster and easier.
Whether you're developing a personal
project or managing larger workloads,
you deserve simple,
affordable and accessible cloud computing
solutions.
As listeners of Python Bytes, you get a
$100 free credit.
You can find all about the those
details at pythonbytes.fm/lenode.
Lenode also has data centers
around the world
with this same simple and consistent
pricing regardless of location. Choose the data center nearest to your users. You also receive
24/7, 365-day human support with no tiers or handoffs regardless of your plan size.
You can choose shared and dedicated compute instances, or you can use your $100 credit on
S3 compatible object storage, managed Kubernetes, and more. If it runs on Linux, it runs on Linode.
visit pythonbytes.fm/linode and click on the create free account button to get started.
Awesome, thanks for supporting the show, Linode. Okay, Brian, I want to cover something that
comes to us from two listeners. This comes from Jim Kring, who pointed out some really
interesting aspects how Python is being used in this whole parlor, social media kerfuffle.
And a great article by my good friend and fellow Portlander,
Mark Little.
So let's go over the article first.
So you guys heard there was basically
an attempt to overthrow the US government.
Do you guys hear that?
That was lovely.
What idiots.
So a lot of the people who were there
got kicked off of official social media,
and they went to this site called Parler.
So Parler, according to Wikipedia,
as an American alt tech micro blogging and social media
networking service.
And it has a significant user base
of Donald Trump supporters, conservatives, conspiracy
theorists, and right wing extremists.
My words, that's Wikipedia.
So a lot of the people who stormed the Capitol
tried to get into Congress and stop accounting the votes.
They decided to live blog it on their personal accounts.
But a lot of them were no longer on Twitter and whatnot,
although some were.
So they were on Parler.
And they probably came to realize,
you know, it's probably not a good idea
of showing me charging into the Capitol
as hundreds of people are being arrested and charged
with federal crimes, right?
At the same time, Parler was getting kicked off
of Apple's App Store for the iOS.
They were getting kicked off of the Google Play Store.
They were getting banned in a lot of places.
So there was this, hacker's not the right person,
the sort of data savior person, I guess you could say,
who came along and realized it would be great
if we could download all of that content and save it
and hand it over to journalists at say like ProPublica,
hand it over to the FBI and so on.
It turns out it wasn't very hard to do.
There was a couple of things
if you look through the Ars Technica article
about how the code behind Parler was a coding mess.
And I've tried to figure out what technology was used
to implement it.
I just couldn't find that anywhere.
Anyway, it says, the reason this woman was so successful
at grabbing all this data,
which she got like 1 million videos
and a whole bunch of pictures.
There's a whole host of mistakes.
So the public API for it used no authentication.
Let me rephrase that, restate that.
The public API used zero authentication,
no rate limiting, nothing.
Just, yeah, sure, we'll just, go ahead.
- There you go.
(laughing)
- You have it all.
Secondly, when a user deleted their post,
the site didn't remove it, it just flagged it as deleted
so it wouldn't show up in the feed.
Which in and of itself is not necessarily bad,
but you pair that with every post
was an auto-incrementing ID,
which meant you could just enumerate.
You're like, oh, I'm on post 500.
Well, let's see what 501 is.
It doesn't matter if it's deleted, give me that.
That's crazy, right?
So she wrote a script in Python to go download it.
And you can actually see like,
here's all the videos and all the stuff
and their IDs and whatnot.
And in here, this is the one that Jim sent over.
If you look, there's a gist here that shows you
how do you download a video from Parler?
Let's go down and find, is it here?
No, maybe it's not there.
I think it might be back.
There's a part where it shows the,
how do you download it with Python and so on.
So you just go through and like, you know,
screen scrape it traditional Python right there.
So apparently Python was used to free
and capture all of this.
Oh, another thing that they did in Parler
that made it easy to get was when you upload videos
and images to places like Twitter,
they'll auto strip the exif,
like the geolocation and whatnot from the images.
Now they don't need it, just post it, right?
to like geolocation, camera name, all that kind of stuff
is all in there.
So there's just a bunch of badness.
They've been since kicked off of AWS because, you know,
crimes and now they're apparently trying to get hosted
in a server in Russia, is that right, Auggie?
- Yeah, there was a, actually,
I think there's an article on Ars Technica
that went up this morning that they're somewhat partially
online on some Russian infrastructure, which--
Yeah, they're only partially online because I looked,
and it says something like, well, we're trying to come back.
Here's a couple of posts.
Yeah, it's not all the way back.
They're experiencing technical difficulties,
as in the world hates them and is trying to make them go away.
So I'm not here to try to make this a political statement
or anything like that.
That's not why I covered the story.
I covered it because I thought it's very interesting,
both the security side and how people were able
to leverage Python to sort of grab this stuff
before it's gone.
Some of the journalists were asking,
like, is there a more accessible way to get the data?
They're like, yes, we're gonna build,
the woman who got it is like,
we're gonna build some better way for you to get it.
But right now it's like,
I had to run into the burning building
and grab the files before they were gone.
- Yeah, the other thing I sort of want to point out
about this story is it's not like Parler
was lacking funding to develop these tools.
they had, from what I understand,
they had significant financial backing.
- Yeah.
- And whether they did not have the technical expertise,
the time, I don't know,
but I'm really curious as more fallout comes from this,
you know.
- Yeah.
- There's gonna be some good stories
from a technical standpoint on here.
- Absolutely.
Well, pretty, pretty insane.
All right, Brian, let's move on to something more
Devy, developer, web Devy.
Well, maybe if you want to scrape
the web or something else.
Absolutely.
Yeah, we've got a suggestion from Douglas Nichols.
Thanks, Douglas.
Best of the web development with Python.
So we've seen--
I would put Parler not in that list.
So we've seen the best of lists like this before.
I'm kind of a fan of them.
But one of the things I liked about this
is the icons are nice.
So there's a whole bunch of different icons
that are used to help, you know,
you can see the likes or the follows and stuff
of different projects.
And then there's icons for,
you can search for Flask projects or things like that.
That's nice.
But it's a pretty big comprehensive list.
We've got web frameworks, HTTP clients, servers,
authorization tools, URL utilities,
open API, GraphQL, which is nice to see.
There's even web testing and markdown listed,
how to access third-party APIs.
But then near the end, I really liked seeing,
there's a bunch of utilities sections.
So there's Flask utilities and FastAPI
and Pyramid and Django utilities, which are really neat.
And what I really was pleased to see
was that even though FastAPI is, what,
a couple of years old now,
there's a whole bunch of FastAPI projects
that are there to make FastAPI easier,
like using SQLAlchemy or, you know,
coming up with the contributions thing or--
- Yeah, fantastic. - You know, different React,
how to use React with it, things like that.
So yeah, nice if you're trying to check out,
wanna look at different tools that are available
for web development with Python,
this might be a good place to peruse.
- I feel like that's one of the big challenges in general,
you know, with people coming into Python
or getting into new framework,
it's like there's 500 libraries to do a thing.
- Yes.
- Which one should I use?
Can I find a library, but there's too many, right?
- Yeah, yeah, so do you have a suggestion for that?
- Well, I think these awesome lists are super good, right?
Because they're somewhat vetted and whatnot.
- I recommend, so like for instance, if I was building a,
well, it's harder now,
but if I was building something new with the web development
or web interface or something,
and I didn't have like which framework to pick
is like one of the starter things.
It's the people I have around me as resources.
So I know that you know about Pyramid,
but you're also fairly knowledgeable about FastAPI.
And I know some people that are Django friendly,
and to know quite a bit about Django.
So if you've got a couple of friends
that already know one of these big hitters,
I would go with that so that you can ask them questions.
- Well, maybe even you don't pick the same thing,
but you could ask, like, you chose this one.
Tell me, you looked at a lot of the other ones.
Why did you pick that?
Yeah.
- Oh yeah.
Yeah, that's a good idea.
- Yeah, for sure.
Like maybe FastAPI makes sense for me.
It doesn't make sense for you,
but you can then see why it made sense for me
and not for you or whatever.
- Yeah.
- Yeah, absolutely.
All right.
- All right, am I up now?
- Yeah, you're up.
- So, Mr. Shaw being in the audience here
was a bit of a surprise,
But one of the things I wanted to talk about is--
I'm going to butcher this.
I apologize.
Pyjayan.
>>Pigeon.
I think it's Pigeon.
I have the picture.
It's Pigeon, right?
>>Oh my goodness.
OK, yes.
What a wonderful name.
And I've been fascinated by this.
And so what Pigeon is--
this feels so awkward to talk about somebody else's project
when they're in the audience here,
is a JIT extension of CPython
that compiles Python code using the .NET 5 CLR.
And what's been fascinating to me about this
is this is like a whole area of software
that I have absolutely no experience with.
Like I know nothing about,
but I've been following what Anthony's been talking about
on Twitter about it.
And he's been explaining what he's doing,
along the way in these Twitter size increments
that I feel like I'm able to follow along with the attendant
and I found that this project absolutely fascinating
and I'm seeing like the rates of improvement over time
and I've just been absolutely blown away.
And so I think this has been absolutely amazing
And I really hope that, I'm really curious.
So one of the benchmarks that Anthony's been using
is his own Python implementation of the end body problem,
which is sort of funny that it's come up
'cause I've been wanting to do an end body
plotting example in PyQt Graph.
And of course, this has been sort of on my to-do
for some time, so now I'm curious
if I should even attempt to,
or if it's even remotely possible
to try and integrate those functionalities together.
- Oh, that's cool.
- And go ahead.
- No, no, go ahead.
- Oh, sorry.
The other things that I've,
then this is,
these, the other thing that I've recently used
for some extension or made use of,
but it's not particularly new,
is the NumPy's underscore or Dunder array function,
functionality which is specified in NEP18.
And what that allows for is using NumPy methods
on not necessarily NumPy arrays.
So for example, with Coupy, you can use like the NumPy
methods that would operate on an ND array,
but use it on a Coupy array.
And this is not limited to Coupy.
There's other libraries that offer this functionality too,
but this makes it so much easier to integrate
various libraries together
with really having minimal code impact
and having near identical APIs.
And earlier I was talking about the pull request
for giving Coupy support into PyKey Dgraph
and this functionality, which was implemented in Coupy,
but it's made the integration so much easier.
- Nice, 'cause you guys already implemented with NumPy
and it's just like,
we're just gonna go through this layer basically.
- Yeah, I mean, there's some other gotchas
that you have to have, right?
With handing stuff off to the GPU and stuff like that.
But yeah, no, that's...
But the actual size of the diff was not that big.
- Well, and you think what it means
to run on a CPU or run on a GPU.
Like that's a very different whole set of computing
and assumptions and environments and right.
And so on and to make that a very small merge is crazy.
- Right, yeah, no, it's fantastic.
Yeah, it's as I said, it's nothing new.
This functionality has existed,
is been enabled by default in NumPy
since version 1.17, which I believe
is almost coming up on two years old now.
But this is the first time I've made use
of this functionality or been impacted
this functionality directly and I'm so appreciative of it.
Yeah, fantastic. And that's super cool. It's I've not really
found a reason for me to work with QPi or anything like that.
But I just really excited about the possibilities for people for
who it does matter, you know?
Yeah, I actually, I always every time I hear about it, I write a
note down to say, Oh, I got to check this out. Looks neat.
Absolutely.
Well, there we go, there's our six items. Do you have anything extra for us, Michael?
Oh, this almost could be an extra, extra, extra, extra. You're all about it.
So I'm just going to throw a few things out really quick.
One, I got my new M1 not long ago and actually had to send in my old laptop.
Its battery was dying, its motherboard was dying, all sorts of things. So
I had to put in a box and send it away.
I'm like, I don't really want to put my data in here.
So I just formatted that as well.
So now I have two brand new computers.
I'm trying to think, like, all right,
I'm kind of getting bugged by how much spying, monitoring,
observation, all these different companies are doing.
So I've started running just Firefox.
But also, a lot of times, like for example, StreamYard,
I can't use a green screen on Firefox.
I have to use Chrome, it says.
And I'm like, I don't really want to use Chrome,
but I want a green screen.
So here I am.
So I've started using Brave.
Whenever something says I have to have Chrome,
I start using Brave,
which is a more privacy-focused browser.
So I thought that was interesting.
And just turning on a VPN like all the time,
just to limit people observing,
not that I really need to keep anything super secret.
Two conferences are coming out with calls for proposals
that are due quite soon.
So the Python web conf is got some calls for proposal.
The conference is actually March 24th.
That order is not quite right, is it?
22nd to 26th.
If you look at their site,
like the days that it's on are like sort of not in order.
Anyway, end of March, there's a cool online conference.
They did this last year, Six Feet Up did,
and they're doing it again this year.
I'm actually speaking here.
Brian, are you speaking there?
- The webconf?
- Yeah.
Well, there's a call for paper, so you could be.
You could be on it.
Yeah, and I think they expanded it out
to be like five days or something.
So there'll be a lot of content, which is very cool.
So I'll be giving a talk on Python memory deep dive there,
I believe.
And then the big one, PyCon.
PyCon is virtual again this year,
but the call for proposals has gone out
and is they're due February 12th.
So if you want to be part of PyCon,
get out there and send something in.
- Are you going to submit something?
- I will probably do it, yeah.
It means I got more work to do,
but yeah, I think I'll do it.
You got any plans?
- I'll probably submit something,
maybe three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine.
(laughing)
- The more you submit, the better chances you got.
Augie, you going to submit either?
- There's talk amongst us PyKitty Graph Maintainers
about doing a tutorial session at SciPy.
So I might, no, that's not listed here,
but we're considering doing that,
which SciPy is also virtual.
- Oh yeah, that'd make a lot of sense.
Yeah, that's cool.
Awesome.
Then final here, here, here, all about extra stuff
is Apple is launching a racial equity
and justice initiative, which I think is pretty cool.
Basically, they're setting up centers to teach programming
and other entrepreneurship skills
in underserved communities, right?
And I know there's again,
a lot of political stuff around all this,
but to me, I would just love to be in a world
where I look around the community
and it looks representative of everybody, right?
I like people feel included.
Like tech is such a wonderful space.
I think this is a cool initiative.
Obviously it could be,
hopefully they deliver it in the right way.
It's not just like,
we're gonna teach everyone how to build iPhone apps.
That's what the world is, right?
You know, it's a more broad sort of conversation
could go any which way.
And I hopefully it was just a start.
Like if you look, they're saying they're donating
a hundred million dollars to this cause,
which is a lot of money,
but it's also only eight hours of profit to Apple.
So yeah, it's got room to grow, I suppose.
Anyway, I just want to give a shout out to that as well.
That seemed pretty cool.
Hi Brian, how about you?
More conference stuff?
- Well, PyCascades is,
actually I don't remember when it is, but.
February, possibly.
- February, probably.
Yep, February 20th, it starts.
And there is the schedule's up.
So I wanted to announce the schedule's there
so you can check it out.
There's still tickets available
and you can see what's gonna happen.
I really had fun at the in-person Pi Cascades
and I think they did a good job
for the online one in 2020.
So, and we're gonna be there.
- Yeah, we are.
We're on a panel.
- Yeah. - Along with Ollie Spittel.
- Yeah, should be fun.
But there's, - Yeah, it's gonna be fun.
- About podcasting, but there's like another panel
about writing technical books that looks good.
There's a bunch of cool talks
that I'm looking forward to seeing, so.
- Yeah, me too, it looks great.
I love all these online conferences
that it's pretty accessible to everybody.
Last year, if we would announce this,
it'd be like, "Oh, well, I'm not in Portland,
"so it doesn't matter to me."
- Yeah. - Right, but.
Agi, I know you got some stuff to shout out real quick,
but also a quick question, a follow-up from Anthony.
NumPy uses AVX extensions for native matrix multiplication
on supported CPUs.
It'd be interesting if that extension supported the same
for non-NumPy arrays.
Thoughts, ideas?
- Yeah, I...
Yes, I'm sure you can use those extensions on...
I mean, NumPy doesn't have a monopoly on AVX extensions.
It just needs-- whatever library you use,
I think it just need to--
or it would need to be compiled with the Intel MKL
BLAS extension, which goes into build systems, which
is way over my head.
And I--
Yeah, I used to live in the C++ world and whatnot,
but I'm far from that world that you and Anthony
are inhabiting these days.
Right, so yeah, I'm short.
- I'm not sure.
But in terms of the extras,
a couple of things I wanted to bring attention to is,
I've been loving the Anthony Explains video series
and these are generated by,
oh God, I'm probably gonna mispronounce his last name,
Anthony Stile, he's been a guest on,
can't remember if he's been a guest here,
but I think he's been a guest on Talk Python To Me.
He maintains Precommit, he's a pytest developer.
- Anthony Sotili.
- Sotili.
And I've been absolutely loving his Anthony Explains playlist series.
The other resource that I've recently found myself having to make use of
is Learn X and Y Minutes.
Sometimes I have to write something in a text stack or in a language
I have absolutely no familiarity with.
And so that resource has been absolutely amazing
for the five-minute overview, right, on the real business.
Yeah, that's cool.
And then the other one is this book I've been reading,
Working in Public.
And I think Guido plugged it a while ago
on his Twitter feed,
but it talks about maintaining open source projects
and some of the issues arising that I think it's,
I'm still not done with it,
but I think it's both helpful
from a maintainer point of view to,
for sanity checking your experiences might not,
might not be as isolated.
And I think it's helpful for new open source contributors
to see what things might look like
from the maintainer's perspective as well.
- I love that. - That's a really good thing.
Yeah, have you read it, Brian?
- It has an audio book version, so I listened to it.
And you wouldn't think like a book on open source
would be good audio, but it was great.
- Yeah, fantastic.
Yeah, awesome.
All right, well, Brian, should we do a joke?
- Yes, we should.
All right, so I put two jokes into the show notes.
One of them is a rap song,
which I know Brian is especially fond of.
It's a rap song about working at the help desk.
So if you're the help desk for your company,
or I guess public support as well,
it's by dual called "Here to Help."
And man, it is so funny.
It's a video song, you know, on YouTube.
So it doesn't really make sense to cover it,
but I thought I'd throw it in there
as a pre-recommendation,
what I'm gonna actually talk about.
Augie, what do you think?
I see you smiling.
- Oh, I have to say that song was just jam after jam
after jam, it was--
- It is.
(laughs)
I need you to click your right mouse button.
I only have one mouse.
(laughs)
So here's the actual Python related joke for us.
And it's a tech support thing.
Brian, why don't you be the person that needs some help?
- Okay.
Hi.
- This is a chat by the way.
Tech support, how may I help you?
- Hi, I've got a problem.
Your program is telling me to get a pet snake.
I don't want one.
- Excuse me?
- It's giving me a message telling me
I need a snake to run it.
- Okay, read the message to me, please.
- Python required to run the script.
That's terrible.
- And it's terrible, terribly good is what it is.
- Hey, I wanted to add some humor as well.
- All right, do it.
- So I saw this on Twitter and it was a quote from,
from, how do I don't know how to pronounce that name.
Byron, Brian, Byron, I don't know.
Quote from Byron Hobart,
"Running a successful open source project
is just goodwill hunting in reverse,
where you start out as a respected genius
and you end up being a janitor who gets into fights.
- Yeah, that's awesome.
And it goes right along with the book recommendation
as well.
Well, that's a good way to put a cap in.
Yep.
All right.
Well, thank you, Brian.
- Thank you. - Thank you, Yogi.
- Thank you for having me.
- Bye everyone.
[BLANK_AUDIO]